.\" Man page for the tk CLI.
.\" View with: man -l man/tk.1
.TH TK 1 "May 2026" "" "tk Manual"
.SH NAME
tk \- agent-first work tracking command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tk
[\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
.br
.B tk
\fIcommand\fR
[\fIarguments\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tk
is an agent-first tool for managing backend-agnostic work items through a
local-first Repository Store and explicit backend Promotion.
.PP
This manual documents the command surface available in the current binary.
Future v1 commands are intentionally omitted until they are implemented.
.PP
New
.B Tickets
are local by default. A configured Remote does not make new Tickets
backend-backed; Promotion is the explicit boundary where local state becomes
backend intent.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print top-level help.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the current version.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Repository setup
.TP
.B tk init
Initialize the Repository Store for the current git repository.
.PP
The Repository Store is a SQLite database at
\fI<git-common-dir>/tk/tk.db\fR. It is shared by all git worktrees for the
same repository and is untracked local state.
.PP
.B tk init
is idempotent. If the store already exists and is current, it reports the
existing path instead of recreating it.
.SS Creating Tickets and Epics
.TP
\fBtk add\fR [\fB\-\-bug\fR | \fB\-\-epic\fR] [\fB\-\-parent\fR \fIepic-id\fR] [\fB\-\-priority\fR \fIP0..P4\fR] (\fB\-m\fR \fIparagraph\fR... | \fB\-F\fR \fIfile\fR)
.TQ
\fBtk add\fR [\fB\-\-bug\fR | \fB\-\-epic\fR] [\fB\-\-parent\fR \fIepic-id\fR] [\fB\-\-priority\fR \fIP0..P4\fR] \fB\-F\fR \fB\-\fR
Create a local task Ticket by default.
.PP
.B \-\-bug
creates a bug Ticket.
.B \-\-epic
creates an Epic.
.B \-\-bug
and
.B \-\-epic
are mutually exclusive.
.B \-\-parent
places a new Ticket under an Epic; it is invalid with
.BR \-\-epic .
.B \-\-priority
sets local-only Priority for Tickets. The default is
.BR P2 .
.PP
.B \-m
and
.B \-\-message
are repeatable message paragraphs.
.B \-F
and
.B \-\-file
read the message from a file. Use
.B \-
to read the message from standard input. Editor mode for bare
.B tk add
is deferred from v1.
.PP
The first paragraph becomes the title. Later paragraphs become the body. An
empty message aborts creation.
.PP
On successful Ticket creation,
.B tk add
prints:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
Created Ticket: <display-id> - <title>
Kind: task|bug
Priority: P0|P1|P2|P3|P4
Status: open
Parent: <epic-display-id>
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B Parent:
line is printed only when
.B \-\-parent
is supplied, and it uses the parent Epic's current Display ID even when the
argument was an Alias.
.PP
On successful Epic creation,
.B tk add
prints:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
Created Epic: <display-id> - <title>
Status: open
.fi
.RE
.SS Reading the List Tree
.TP
\fBtk list\fR [\fB\-\-ready\fR | \fB\-\-blocked\fR | \fB\-\-active\fR] [\fB\-\-local\fR | \fB\-\-remote\fR] [\fB\-\-epic\fR]
Render the Repository Store List Tree.
.PP
The default view shows open and active Tickets and Epics. Epics render as
top-level rows, child Tickets render under their Epic with tree glyphs, and
unparented Tickets render as top-level rows.
.PP
.B \-\-ready
shows open Tickets with no unresolved Dependencies or External Blockers.
.B \-\-blocked
shows open or active Tickets with unresolved Dependencies or External Blockers.
.B \-\-active
shows active Tickets and Epics, retaining inactive Epics as containers for
active child Tickets.
.PP
.B \-\-local
shows only local items.
.B \-\-remote
shows only Backend-backed items. The current binary can read backend-origin
rows seeded by tests or future sync paths, but it does not promote or pull
backend items yet.
.PP
.B \-\-epic
restricts the listing to Epics and composes with any view or Origin filter.
.PP
On success with one local Ticket,
.B tk list
prints:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
○ project-1 ● P2 Investigate flaky login retry
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total: 1 item (1 open)

Status: ○ open  ◐ active  ✓ done
.fi
.RE
.SS Searching by title
.TP
\fBtk search\fR \fIQUERY\fR
Find Tickets and Epics whose title contains
.I QUERY
as a case-insensitive literal substring.
.PP
Search covers the whole Repository Store and every Item Status, including
done; it ignores Scope and is never narrowed by TK_SCOPE. It matches title
text only: exact Display ID or Alias lookup is
.BR tk\ show .
Matches render flat, without List Tree nesting, reusing the
.B tk list
row rendering and summary chrome, ordered by creation.
.PP
.I QUERY
is a single required positional matched literally, so
.B %
and
.B _
carry no special meaning. Use
.B \-\-
to search a query that begins with a dash (\fBtk search \-\- \-v\fR).
.PP
When nothing matches,
.B tk search
prints a no-match line and exits 0:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
No items match "auth".
.fi
.RE
.PP
On success it prints the matching rows followed by the List Tree summary:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
○ project-1 [epic] Auth rework
◐ project-2 ● P2 Add auth middleware
✓ project-3 ● P2 Auth token refresh
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total: 3 items (1 open, 1 active, 1 done)

Status: ○ open  ◐ active  ✓ done
.fi
.RE
.SS Searching content
.TP
\fBtk grep\fR [\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-F\fR] [\fB\-C\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-A\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-B\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-q\fR | \fB\-c\fR] \fIPATTERN\fR
Find Tickets and Epics whose title or body matches the regular expression
.I PATTERN
and render each match as a
.BR "tk show" -style
block with the body collapsed to the matching lines plus surrounding context.
.PP
Grep covers the whole Repository Store and every Item Status, including done;
like
.B tk search
it ignores Scope and is never narrowed by TK_SCOPE. It searches title and body
text \(em content search, as opposed to the title-only lookup of
.B tk search
or the exact Display ID / Alias lookup of
.BR tk\ show .
.PP
.I PATTERN
is a Rust regular expression (RE2-family, like \fBgrep \-E\fR; no
backreferences or lookaround) and matching is case-sensitive by default. Matched
text is highlighted on a terminal. Matches print in creation order, never ranked,
with three lines of context each side by default,
.B \-\-
between non-contiguous hunks within one item, and a blank line between items.
An empty pattern, or an invalid regular expression, is a usage error
(a whitespace pattern is a valid needle, matched like \fBgrep\fR).
.PP
.B \-i
matches case-insensitively (full Unicode case folding), and
.B \-F
matches
.I PATTERN
as a literal string instead of a regular expression.
.PP
.B \-C
sets the context window to
.I N
lines each side (default 3);
.B \-A
and
.B \-B
override the trailing and leading side independently, and
.B "\-C 0"
shows only the matching lines.
.PP
.B \-q
suppresses all output and exits on the first match;
.B \-c
prints the count of matching items instead of the blocks. Both keep the
exit-status predicate described below.
.PP
.B tk grep
overloads its exit status as a \fBgrep \-q\fR\-style predicate: it exits 0 when
at least one item matches and 1 when none do, leaving stderr empty so a script
can tell \(lqno match\(rq from a real failure. A usage error exits 2.
.PP
On success it prints one
.B tk show
\-style block per matching item:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
○ project-2 · Add middleware
  P2 · Task · Created: 2026-06-04
  the handler validates the auth token
.fi
.RE
.SS Selecting Ready Work
.TP
.B tk next
Select the next ready Ticket.
.PP
.B tk next
selects open Tickets with no unresolved Dependencies or External Blockers. It
orders ready Tickets by Effective Priority, then own Priority, then Repository
Store created_seq, and never selects Epics. Effective Priority is the lowest
of a candidate's own Priority and the Priorities of every unfinished item it
transitively blocks through Dependencies and Epic-membership, so a ready
Ticket that gates a higher-Priority Blocked Item outranks lower-priority
direct work. Effective Priority does not cross the Workspace Scope boundary.
Backend Tickets use local import order for the created_seq tie break, not
backend-native creation time. Selection is deterministic and does not
randomize among candidates. Ticket Kind and Assignees do not affect ordering.
.PP
.B tk next
does not explain skipped candidates. When the selected Ticket's Effective
Priority is lower than its own Priority,
.B tk next
writes one rationale line to standard error in the form
.RS 4
.nf
<display-id>: Effective Priority <P> (via <contributor-id>)
.fi
.RE
so the non-obvious pick is explainable without a follow-up
.BR "tk show" .
Standard output stays a single Display ID line, so
.B id=$(tk next)
captures only the selection; redirect standard error with
.B 2>/dev/null
to suppress the rationale.
.PP
Parent Epic status, Dependencies, and External Blockers do not hide otherwise
ready child Tickets.
.PP
Mutation Log, Mutation Failure, and Sync Cursor state do not filter
.B tk next
selection, and
.B tk next
does not emit sync-health warnings.
.PP
.B tk next
is read-only and does not change Item Status. Starting work belongs to
.BR "tk worktree start" .
.PP
.B tk next
takes no scope argument; scoped selection comes only from Workspace Scope.
.PP
When Workspace Scope support lands,
.B tk next
will default to the active Workspace Scope. In the current binary, Workspace
Scope discovery has not landed yet, so
.B tk next
searches all ready Tickets. Global ready-work inspection uses
.BR "tk list --ready" .
.PP
On success,
.B tk next
prints one Display ID:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
<display-id>
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B tk next
has no JSON or structured-output mode in v1; the Display ID line is the
machine interface.
.PP
If no ready Ticket matches,
.B tk next
returns exit status 1 and writes
.B tk next: no ready Tickets
to standard error. If Workspace Scope was applied, it instead writes
.B tk next: no ready Tickets in Workspace Scope
to standard error.
.SS Agent briefing
.TP
.B tk prime
Print static agent workflow guidance to standard output when the current
directory has an initialized Repository Store.
.PP
.B tk prime
exits successfully with no output when there is no initialized Repository
Store, including outside a git repository, so a global agent hook can run it
in any directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Logical failure, such as missing Repository Store or invalid message input.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error.
.TP
.B 3
Unexpected internal error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize a repository-local store:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tk init
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a local Ticket from a file:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tk add -F followup.md
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a local Ticket from standard input:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tk add -F - <<'EOF'
Investigate flaky login retry

Repro is intermittent on the staging cluster.
First seen 2026-04-30.
EOF
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create an Epic and a child Ticket:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tk add --epic -m "Jira backend"
tk add --parent project-1 -m "Map Jira issue fields"
.fi
.RE
.PP
List visible work:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tk list
tk list --ready
.fi
.RE
.PP
Select the next ready Ticket:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tk next
.fi
.RE
.PP
Print agent guidance:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tk prime
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
The project README, CONTEXT.md domain glossary, ARCHITECTURE.md module map,
and ADRs under docs/adr/.
